
# урок 7

1. Use an if/then/elif/else construct that prints information about the current month. The script should print the number of days in this month, and give information about leap years if the current month is February.

       #!/bin/bash
       
3. Modify /etc/profile so that you get a special greeting message when you connect to your system as root

       echo "Willkommen ${USER}"

4. Edit the leaptest.sh script from Section 7.2.4 so that it requires one argument, the year. Test that exactly one argument is supplied.

       #!/bin/bash
       #Ko script mba'embo ko'a ocalculata ñaimeropa año bisiesto o nahaniri 
       
       echo "Ehai petei año"
       read year
       
5. Write a script called whichdaemon.sh that checks if the httpd and init daemons are running on your system. If an httpd is running, the script should print a message like, "This machine is running a web server." Use ps to check on processes.
       
       #!/bin/bash
       ps –e | grep ‘httpd’ | wc –l
       if [ $? –eq 0 ]
       then
       echo "The machine is running a webserver"
       else
       echo "not running"
       fi

6. 

# урок 8

1. Write a script that asks for the user's age. If it is equal to or higher than 16, print a message saying that this user is allowed to drink alcohol. If the user's age is below 16, print a message telling the user how many years he or she has to wait before legally being allowed to drink.

       #!/bin/bash
       echo "Mboy año reguereko"
       read age
       if [ $age –ge 16 ]
       then
       echo "Ikatu remoko"
       else
       
       
